I welcome to another episode of MS
promotions Lark cart since we've been
working with oil pastels in class I
figured I would do a review for you guys
right here so if you have oil pastels at
home great
and if not we'll work on it in school so
I'm going to do the candles that we've
been working on in class I'm going to do
a purple candle from that Advent wreath
I showed you so I'm gonna start with the
purple on this black paper which is very
dark it's very hard to see but I can see
that it's there so I'm really just
trying to cover the paper as much as I
can
oil pastels look like crayons they're
not crayons
they're nothing like crayons at all
they're more like drawing with paint so
let's add the flame part flame on a
candle sort of teardrop or a raindrop
shaped
okay I'm gonna cover them with you know
some way
okay the top of the candles is you might
remember from the pictures up on the
board are lighter than the bottom of the
candle so I mean here's pink for the top
of my candle and I'm gonna make the top
really uneven to make it look like the
candles been melting down I'm pressing
really hard I want to cover the whole
page remember oil pastels are more like
paintings than they are like drawings
and if you make a mistake just go over
something so I'm gonna get some more
make it really light up there and
because I want it lighter I'm going to
add some way just no light
all right so that's fine that's okay
that's that's good enough I guess but
this is an oil pastel work so we're
going to use our fingers it's a smear or
blend the pastels together so fire
always points up so when you smear and
blend for the fire you want to point up
so you get the effect of it being
looking like real fire now with the
candle part we don't have to necessarily
go up we just blend everything together
my colors to really make it look like
this is a candle whose top is lighter
okay that's pretty cool now much of you
were asking me about wax dripping so you
want to make the top uneven and then
bring the line down alongside the candle
and make like a blob okay
let's do that over here and make a blob
think of lava now and blend it
oops
okay that's pretty cool
so now I'm going to add a little more on
my fire
and it you have to be careful when
you're blending make sure you know what
color is stuck on your fingers already
before you start blending so it's
helpful to keep a rag or something
around wipe your hands off in between
colors and there you go
oil pastel can so if you have a little
pesto so at home keep practicing if not
practicing class see you next time